# ExpressionTree

This is an attempt to create a simple scanner (tokenizer) and parser that builds a parse tree from a user specified mathematical expression.

# Lexical Symbols:
The tokenizer recognizes the following as valid symbols: 
- variables (regex "^[A-Za-z_]+[A-Za-z0-9_]$") 
- integral numeric literals (regex "^[0-9]+$")
- operators (one of {'+', '-', '*', '/', '%', '++', '--'}


# Compile/Build Instructions
- If an `ExpressionTree` is built successfully, it will be printed onto a file named `parseTree.txt` in this directory.
  - `parseTree.txt` will display the pre-order printing of the `ExpressionTree`, indentations will mark the "depth" of each node (2 nodes with same indentations meant they are on the same level (and are siblings)).


Assume `gcc` and `Make` are available on the machine.

- refer to `Makefile` for build, test, and clean instructions.
- On successful builds, an executable named `expressionTree` will be present in the working directory.
- if `valgrind` is installed on the machine, `make valgrind` will run the executable with valgrind to check for memory errors.

## Rules Summary

### Simple Build

```
  make
```

### Build Then Execute

```
  make test
```

### Build, Test, Execute, then Check Memory Fault

- assume `valgrind` is installed on machine

```
  make valgrind
```

### Remove Executable

```
  make clean
```

# Tree Building 

- Using the **_shunting yard_** algorithm.
- Requires stacks: one for operands, another for operators.
- operator precedence rule should be reminded.

# Comments

- so far, ≤ 1% code is generated by AI (not too impressive but to highlight this project as a record of me figuring concepts out then applying them 🤪).
- `()` are not being handled yet
- `build_tree` can only support basic cases like

```
  a + b - c ⇒    '+'
                 /  \
                a   '-'
                    / \
                   b   c
```

```
  a * 8 / c ⇒    '*'
                 /  \
                a   '/'
                    / \
                   8   c
```

==> cannot handle cases where PlusMinus and MultiplyDivide are mixed
